Documentation~/index.md, before:

---
uid: addressables-home
---

# Addressables package

The Addressables package provides tools and scripts to organize and package content for your application, and an API to load and release assets at runtime.

When you make an asset Addressable, you can use that asset's address to load it from anywhere. Whether that asset resides in the local application or on a content delivery network, the Addressable system locates and returns it. 

Adopt the Addressables system to help improve your project in the following areas:

* __Flexibility__: Addressables give you the flexibility to adjust where you host your assets. You can install assets with your application or download them on demand. You can change where you access a specific asset at any stage in your project without rewriting any game code. 
* __Dependency management__: The system automatically loads all dependencies of any assets you load, so that all meshes, shaders, animations, and other assets load before the system returns the content to you.
* __Memory management__: The system unloads and loads assets, and counts references automatically. The Addressables package also provides a Profiler to help you identify potential memory problems.
* __Content packing__: Because the system maps and understands complex dependency chains, it package AssetBundles efficiently, even when you move or rename assets. You can prepare assets for both local and remote deployment, to support downloadable content and reduced application size.

> [!NOTE]
> The Addressables system builds on Unity's [AssetBundles](xref:AssetBundlesIntro). If you want to use AssetBundles in your projects without writing your own detailed management code, you should use Addressables.

Commit message:

com.unity.addressables@1.19.19
Addressables-MultiCatalog-MultiHash extension based on com.unity.addressables@1.19.19

Documentation~/index.md, after:

---
uid: addressables-home
---

# Addressables

The Addressables system provides tools and scripts to organize and package content for your application and an API to load and release assets at runtime.

When you make an asset "Addressable," you can use that asset's address to load it from anywhere. Whether that asset resides in the local application or on a content delivery network, the Addressable system locates and returns it. 

Adopt the Addressables system to help improve your project in the following areas:

* __Flexibility__: Addressables give you the flexibility to adjust where you host your assets. You can install assets with your application or download them on demand. You can change where you access a specific asset at any stage in your project without rewriting any game code. 
* __Dependency management__: The system automatically loads all dependencies of any assets you load, so that all meshes, shaders, animations, and other assets load before the system returns the content to you.
* __Memory management__: The system unloads assets as well as loads them, counting references automatically and providing a robust profiler to help you spot potential memory problems.
* __Content packing__: Because the system maps and understands complex dependency chains, it package AssetBundles efficiently, even when you move or rename assets. You can prepare assets for both local and remote deployment, to support downloadable content and reduced application size.

For an introduction to the Addressables system see [Simplify your content management with Addressables].

> [!NOTE]
> The Addressables system builds upon Unity AssetBundles. If you want to use AssetBundles in your projects without writing your own detailed management code, you should use Addressables.

## Adding Addressables to an existing Project

You can adopt Addressables in an existing Unity Project by installing the Addressables package. To do this, you need to assign addresses to your assets and refactor any runtime loading code. See [Upgrading to the Addressables system] for more information. 

Although you can integrate Addressables at any stage in a project’s development, Unity recommends that you start using Addressables immediately in new projects to avoid unnecessary code refactoring and content planning changes later in development.

[Upgrading to the Addressables system]: xref:addressables-migration
[Simplify your content management with Addressables]: https://unity.com/how-to/simplify-your-content-management-addressables
